Refactor the digital infrastructure section of episode 3 (#87)
ImperialCollegeLondon/digital_research_sustainability_training: episodes/03_activities.md

fixed overhead, so the more computational work that is carried out over the lifetime of
a device the more efficiently that overhead has been invested. Similarly, as there is a
mimimum power draw associated with idle usage, as utilisation of a device increases the
power draw per unit of computational work decreases.

::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::

:::::::::::::::::::::::::: callout

### Operational vs Embedded Emissions

As a rule of thumb, for consumer electronic devices (that is laptops, desktops, tablets
and phones) the embodied emissions are far in excess of operational ones. This
emphasises the importance of maximising the lifetime of these devices.

For enterprise servers that have a much greater maximum operational power draw, the
balance can vary due to a number of factors, not least the carbon intensity of the
electricity used to power them and their utilisation. As the carbon intensity of
electricity falls over time however embodied emissions are expected to increasingly
dominate.

::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::

### Estimating and Measuring Computer Emissions

#### Embodied Emissions

> Finding the embodied emissions of device relies on information provided by the

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Finding the embodied emissions of a device relies on information provided by the
```

application.

If it is impractical to make any direct measurements, there are also some methods to
estimate power draw.

For idle power usage, one option is to check for an [ECO Declaration] for the
equipment. For example, the [ECO declaration of the HP EliteBook 840 G9] indicates an
idle energy consumption of 22.67 kWh/year. This declaration also includes useful
information about the product, like which components can be replaced or upgrade. The ECO
Declaration is a voluntary standard so not all manufacturers provide it or it may
contain incomplete information.

For estimating the power usage of a computational workload a useful resource is the
[Green Algorithms Calculator]. This uses a simple model that combines information about
the resource utilisation of a computational workload with details of the hardware it ran
on.

Operational emissions are those that are produced when _using_ the equipment. They depend
on its design and performance, but also on _how_ it is used and _where_ it is used. For
the latter reason, it is often better to consider the energy usage, rather than the
carbon emitted as this depends on the energy mix where the machine is being used.

> #### Idle energy usage

Reviewer 2: I'm glad you simplified (removed) this section and the next. They were pretty boring and you have extracted the gist of them quite nicely.

> in the manufacturer's webpag.epo

Reviewer 2: What's this `webpag.epo`?

  Their embodied emissions are low, while their operational emissions are near
  zero.

### Measuring and Estimating Data Storage Emissions

Similarly to computers, their associated carbon emissions can be split into operational
and embedded components. Storage devices are often components of larger systems which

> can make it difficult to directly measure their power usage. Whilst some manufacters do

Reviewer: ```suggestion
can make it difficult to directly measure their power usage. Whilst some manufacturers do
```

:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::

### Data Centre Expansion, Hyperscalers and AI

![Data centers consume huge amounts of energy and water, which can be a risk for the
environment. Image originally published at [The Seattle
Times].](https://images.seattletimes.com/wp-content/uploads/2025/11/Data-Centers-ONLINE.jpg){alt="Cartoon

> showing a datacenter as a monster demanding more power."}

Reviewer 2: I thought we had ditched this image...

Author: I just didn't like it in the context of introducing data centres. When referencing their media portraying I think it works well.

> Increasingly data centres are appearing in the media in a negative light due to their

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Increasingly, data centres are appearing in the media in a negative light due to their
```

power and water consumption. Data centres consume around 2.5% of the UK's electricity
and the annual consumption is expected to increase by 4 times by 2030^8^. In the U.S.,
data centres are predicted to use up to 12% of the country's electricity by 2028, a 3x
increase from 4.4% in 2025^9^.

Much of this expansion is driven by a relatively small number of tech companies. The
compute demands of training and serving AI models is also driving a noticable increase.
In the UK the Department of Science Innovation and Technology have projected a need for
6GW of AI ready data centre capacity by 2030^15^ compared to overall current national
demand of ~30-35 GW.

> Additionally there have been accusations of tech companies obscuring and under-reporting

Reviewer: This is just a personal opinion, but I wonder if  `accusations` is too strong to use in the course and we could use a more neutral tone? 

```suggestion
Additionally, there have been reports suggesting that tech companies are obscuring and under-reporting
```

workflows in a "matrix" configuration across variables such as operating system and
software version which can lead to large parallel computational workloads executing.

CI/CD workflows are executed by servers acting as runners. Most services provide hosted
runners for general use and support self-hosting a runner if you provide your own
server. The latter case is amenable to the measurement and estimation methods discussed
above. If using runners hosted by the service however, usually you will have no control
or visibility over where workflows are executed or the underlying hardware they use.
Direct measurement of energy usage in this case is not possible and there is
insufficient information to use approaches like the Green Algorithms Calculator. Instead
[Eco CI] is a tool that has been developed to estimate the carbon emissions of CI/CD
workflows. It supports GitHub and GitLab.

[Eco CI]: https://github.com/green-coding-solutions/eco-ci-energy-estimation

To reduce emissions from CI/CD usage consider ways to reduce the number of workflow
executions whilst maintaing strong quality assurance checks. Some strategies are

> explored in this [blogpost][rational-use-of-ci] from the Imperial Research Software

Reviewer 2: And this poster? 😁 

"Environmentally-aware use of GitHub ACtions" https://doi.org/10.5281/zenodo.12754189

Author: Oh, that's better. It has a DOI.
